README.md, before:

<p align="center"><a href="https://see.asseco.com" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/asseco-voice/art/blob/main/evil_logo.png" width="500"></a></p>

# Laravel remote relations

This package enables creating relations locally from Eloquent models to remote services. 

## Installation

Install the package through composer. It is automatically registered
as a Laravel service provider, so no additional actions are required.

``composer require asseco-voice/laravel-remote-relations``

## Setup

1. Run ``php artisan migrate`` to migrate the table. 

Table consists of:

1. Local model type/id - polymorphic relation of local Eloquent models
1. Service - indicating a key which needs to be mapped to a certain service class
1. Remote model - plain string representing a model in a remote service (isn't Laravel
specific)
1. Remote model ID - actual ID to which a relation is created 

Out of the box no services are registered because the package doesn't know
where to fetch related data from, so you need to provide services manually. 

1. Publish the configuration with `php artisan vendor:publish --tag=asseco-remote-relations-config`
1. Create a new service class for remote service you'd like to make a relation to and
make it extend ``HasRemoteRelations`` interface
1. Interface has 2 methods which are responsible for resolving a single relation or a
collection of relations. 
1. Resolving collections will always be done on a single model type (i.e. collection
of users) on a single service so that you can resolve multiple models at once if possible. 
1. Model IDs are of ``string`` type so that it supports non-numeric IDs as well.
1. Add the class to config under ``services`` key in the format `'service_name' => Service::class'`

## Usage

Have your models use a ``Relatable`` trait which will provide an Eloquent relation to 
a `RemoteRelation` class, so you don't have to repeat yourself. 

There are also several handy methods:

- ``relate($service, $model, $id)`` - to create a relation
- ``relateQuietly($service, $model, $id)`` - to create a relation suppressing all events which 
would usually be fired by creation of the relation. 
- ``unrelate($service, $model, $id)`` - to remove a relation
- ``unrelateQuietly($service, $model, $id)`` - to remove a relation suppressing all events which 
would usually be fired by creation of the relation. 

## CRUD API

Doing a ``GET`` request on ``api/remote-relation-services`` endpoint will return key-value service mapping
so frontend can know which services are available.

Standard API resource is published on ``api/remote-relations`` endpoint with standard CRUD routes. 

Additionally, there is a `GET` ``api/remote-relations/{remote_relation}/resolved`` endpoint which will return resolved
relation.  

### Example

Given the following configuration:

```
'services' => [
    'some_remote_service' => SomeRemoteService::class,
],
``` 

Having added a `Relatable` trait to your ``User`` model.

You can now call a ``relate()`` method on a single user instance like this:

```
$user->relate('some_remote_service', 'model_on_your_remote_service', 'id_of_a_model_on_your_remote_service');
```

Note that first parameter equals to the service key in the configuration. That is how package knows which 
service to use. 

Resolving relations can be done for a single relation, or a collection of relations:

```
$user->remoteRelations->first()->resolve() // resolves a single relation
$user->remoteRelations->resolve() // resolves a relation collection
```

# Extending the package

Publishing the configuration will enable you to change package models as
well as controlling how migrations behave. If extending the model, make sure
you're extending the original model in your implementation.

Commit message:

Acknowledged #major (#25)
* Acknowledged

* Apply fixes from StyleCI

* Acknowledge endpoint

* Apply fixes from StyleCI

* Minor

* Minor

* Updated migration

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><a href="https://see.asseco.com" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/asseco-voice/art/blob/main/evil_logo.png" width="500"></a></p>

# Laravel remote relations

This package enables creating relations locally from Eloquent models to remote services. 

## Installation

Install the package through composer. It is automatically registered
as a Laravel service provider, so no additional actions are required.

``composer require asseco-voice/laravel-remote-relations``

## Setup

1. Run ``php artisan migrate`` to migrate the table. 

Table consists of:

1. Local model type/id - polymorphic relation of local Eloquent models
1. Service - indicating a key which needs to be mapped to a certain service class
1. Remote model - plain string representing a model in a remote service (isn't Laravel
specific)
1. Remote model ID - actual ID to which a relation is created 
1. Acknowledged - date to verify if reverse relation was created

Out of the box no services are registered because the package doesn't know
where to fetch related data from, so you need to provide services manually. 

1. Publish the configuration with `php artisan vendor:publish --tag=asseco-remote-relations-config`
1. Create a new service class for remote service you'd like to make a relation to and
make it extend ``HasRemoteRelations`` interface
1. Interface has 2 methods which are responsible for resolving a single relation or a
collection of relations. 
1. Resolving collections will always be done on a single model type (i.e. collection
of users) on a single service so that you can resolve multiple models at once if possible. 
1. Model IDs are of ``string`` type so that it supports non-numeric IDs as well.
1. Add the class to config under ``services`` key in the format `'service_name' => Service::class'`

## Usage

Have your models use a ``Relatable`` trait which will provide an Eloquent relation to 
a `RemoteRelation` class, so you don't have to repeat yourself. 

There are also several handy methods:

- ``relate($service, $model, $id)`` - to create a relation
- ``relateQuietly($service, $model, $id)`` - to create a relation suppressing all events which 
would usually be fired by creation of the relation. 
- ``unrelate($service, $model, $id)`` - to remove a relation
- ``unrelateQuietly($service, $model, $id)`` - to remove a relation suppressing all events which 
would usually be fired by creation of the relation. 

## CRUD API

Standard API resource is published on ``api/remote-relations`` endpoint with standard CRUD routes. 

Going on ``api/remote-relations/many``, you can execute a POST request to store many relations at once.

Additionally, there is a `GET` ``api/remote-relations/{remote_relation}/resolved`` endpoint which will return a resolved relation.  

## Acknowledgement

Initially when you create a remote relation from service A to service B, acknowledged
attribute is ``null``. When service B catches the event and creates the relation in its
database, it should set the acknowledged attribute of a newly created row to `true` and
communicate back to service A to set acknowledged attribute of original relation 
to ``now()``.

## Resolving relations programmatically

You will probably want to have a class which knows how to resolve particular relations. To do that, have your SDK class implement a ``HasRemoteRelations`` interface and implement methods from it.

Once you do that, register that class in ``services.php`` under
``sdk`` key. Service name must be the name which you are storing
in the DB when populating the ``service`` attribute.

### Example

Given the following configuration in ``services.php``:

```
'some_remote_service' => [
    'sdk' => SomeRemoteService::class,
],
``` 

Having added a `Relatable` trait to your ``User`` model.

You can now call a ``relate()`` method on a single user instance like this:

```
$user->relate('some_remote_service', 'model_on_your_remote_service', 'id_of_a_model_on_your_remote_service');
```

Note that first parameter equals to the service key in the configuration. That is how package knows which 
service to use. 

Resolving relations can be done for a single relation, or a collection of relations:

```
$user->remoteRelations->first()->resolve() // resolves a single relation
$user->remoteRelations->resolve() // resolves a relation collection
```

# Extending the package

Publishing the configuration will enable you to change package models as
well as controlling how migrations behave. If extending the model, make sure
you're extending the original model in your implementation.
